# Predicting-Early-Intervention-in-Intensive-Care-Units
Thesis

SUMMARY
ICU is a costly service with limited resources, where patients with serious health problems and who need to be followed up receive treatment. The general health status of patients in ICU may deteriorate suddenly and deteriorate rapidly. For this reason, these services are equipped with special medical devices, as early and correct interventions are required for patients.
ICU admissions are used to monitor and treat conditions such as organ failure, heart attacks, severe physical injuries, strokes, COPD, sepsis, and coma. 
Data such as vital signs, diagnoses, laboratory data of patients are stored in ICU. These data are used for patient follow-up, disease diagnosis and treatment. Intensive care units have become environments where it is necessary and appropriate to use artificial intelligence and machine learning applications because EMR data is too large and complex to be processed in the human brain. These practices paved the way for more efficient use of both human resources and hospital equipment.
Early intervention is of critical importance in these wards where patient mortality rates are high. However, estimating early intervention is an extremely difficult and complex process. Early interventions are the most important factor in improving the health status of patients and getting rid of the future effects of the health problem.
Artificial intelligence applications have gained importance in intensive care units for purposes such as readmissions, death rates, and early intervention estimation, and these studies have increased.
MIMIC-III dataset which contains information about patients in ICU was used in this study. The information in the data comprises details about patients' experiences at the hospital since they first entered the pertinent data units. The intensive care unit's early interventions were predicted using this information using artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques.
